---
layout: post
title:  "Bit Rot, by Douglas Coupland"
date:   2017-11-11
categories: reviews
---
Having been a Coupland fan for many years it was a surprise to me that I hadn't followed any writing of his outside of novels. This is a collection of short stories, essays and notes seemingly pasted together to form chapters. There is a lot of great content, as I'd expect, but there's a fair bit of filler too. I have a sense that the short stories are more accurately abandoned projects, rather than being intentionally written that way.

That said there's a huge amount to like here, I've picked out some favourite notes below.

*Unclassy*  
Thoughtful commentary on class and the nature of work. Especially interesting this week considering the [recent ruling on Uber's relationship to drivers](https://www.standard.co.uk/news/transport/uber-loses-appeal-against-landmark-ruling-over-drivers-rights-a3687676.html). 

*Stuffed*  
I like the observation that people who aim for minimalism are really just hoarding space. The wife and I put a little effort into minimalism, but I still look around our flat and think we have too much stuff. 

*Grexit*  
People need ot feel like they do something in order to feel fulfilled.

*The Man Who Lost His Story*  
Taps into my fear of being a dilettante and lacking focus, but ultimately the story itself peters out. 

*3 1/2 Fingers*  
DC claims to have corrected his handwriting in his 30s, wonder if that could work for me. I've also noticed my typing deteriorate with more time spent on touch devices.

*Bit Rot*  
Digital archiving has been something I've thought a lot about lately. I have coalesced on a few long-term storage setups:
* flat files (even for photos) synced primarily over Google Drive,
* Evernote,
* a single mass MediaWiki installation,
* git. 

*Temp*  
Some previous ideas from earlier chapters (hollowing middle class etc) baked into a sub-par short story. 

*Retail*  
On the dichotomy of luxury: ”those who want gilded leopard-shaped teapots and those who want to live in the white box their iPhone came in”.

*Trivial*  
Trivia was a big thing in the 20th century: "because Society was generating far more information than it was generating systems with which to access that information." With the web and especially with smartphones this is no longer true.
Disappointingly this section ends with a cynical note on creation for its own sake.

*Mrs McCarthy and Mrs Brown*  
CIA funded abstract expressionism?

*An Appp Called Yoo*  
Really interesting. I have had similar ideas, though with less emphasis on synthesis of ideas to present new content. Reminds me a little of Second Brain, startup/website from mid-2000s. 